rn-4-14-clean: Scan 4.14 Release Notes for typos, and so on (#67005)
openshift/openshift-docs: release_notes/ocp-4-14-release-notes.adoc

* xref:../installing/installing_ibm_z/installing-ibm-z.adoc#installing-ibm-z[Installing a cluster with z/VM on {ibmzRegProductName} and {linuxoneProductName}]
* xref:../installing/installing_ibm_z/installing-restricted-networks-ibm-z.adoc#installing-restricted-networks-ibm-z[Installing a cluster with z/VM on {ibmzRegProductName} and {linuxoneProductName} in a restricted network]
* xref:../installing/installing_ibm_z/installing-ibm-z-kvm.adoc#installing-ibm-z-kvm[Installing a cluster with {op-system-base} KVM on {ibmzRegProductName} and {linuxoneProductName}]
* xref:../installing/installing_ibm_z/installing-restricted-networks-ibm-z-kvm.adoc#installing-restricted-networks-ibm-z-kvm[Installing a cluster with RHEL KVM on {ibmzRegProductName} and {linuxoneProductName} in a restricted network]

[IMPORTANT]
====
Compute nodes must run {op-system-first}.
====

[discrete]
==== {ibmzRegProductName} and {linuxoneProductName} notable enhancements

> Starting in {product-title} {product-version}, Extended Update Support (EUS) is extended to the {ibmzRegProductName} platform.  For more information, see the link:https://access.redhat.com/support/policy/updates/openshift-eus[OpenShift EUS Overview].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Starting in {product-title} {product-version}, Extended Update Support (EUS) is extended to the {ibmzRegProductName} platform. For more information, see the link:https://access.redhat.com/support/policy/updates/openshift-eus[OpenShift EUS Overview].
```

{product-title} is capable of provisioning persistent volumes (PVs) using the Container Storage Interface (CSI) driver for Google Compute Platform (GCP) Filestore Storage. The GCP Filestore CSI Driver Operator was introduced in {product-title} 4.12 with Technology Preview support. The GCP Filestore CSI Driver Operator is now generally available. For more information, see xref:../storage/container_storage_interface/persistent-storage-csi-google-cloud-file.adoc#persistent-storage-csi-google-cloud-file[Google Compute Platform Filestore CSI Driver Operator].

[id="ocp-4-14-storage-automigration-vsphere"]
==== Automatic CSI migration for VMware vSphere
The Automatic CSI migration for VMware vSphere feature automatically translates in-tree objects to their counterpart CSI representations and, ideally, must be completely transparent to users. Although storage class referencing to the in-tree storage plug-in continues to work, consider switching the default storage class to the CSI storage class.

In {product-title} {product-version}, CSI migration for vSphere is enabled by default under all circumstances and requires no action by an administrator.

> If you are using vSphere in-tree persistent volumes (PVs) and want to upgrade from {product-title} 4.12 or 4.13 to {product-version}, update vSphere vCenter and ESXI host to 7.0 Update 3L or 8.0 Update 2, otherwise the {product-title} upgrade is blocked. If you do not want to update vSphere, you can proceed with an {product-title} upgrade by performing an administrator acknowledgment. However, with using the administrator acknowledgment, known issues can occur. Before proceeding with the administrator acknowledgement, carefully read the link:link:https://access.redhat.com/node/7011683[Knowledge Base article].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are using vSphere in-tree persistent volumes (PVs) and want to upgrade from {product-title} 4.12 or 4.13 to {product-version}, update vSphere vCenter and ESXI host to 7.0 Update 3L or 8.0 Update 2, otherwise the {product-title} upgrade is blocked. If you do not want to update vSphere, you can proceed with an {product-title} upgrade by performing an administrator acknowledgment. However, with using the administrator acknowledgment, known issues can occur. Before proceeding with the administrator acknowledgement, carefully read the link:https://access.redhat.com/node/7011683[Knowledge Base article].
```

* Previously, the Cluster Version Operator (CVO) did not reconcile `SecurityContextConstraints` resources as expected. The CVO now properly reconciles `SecurityContextConstraints` resources towards the state defined in the release image, reverting any unsupported modifications to them.
+

> Users who want to upgrade from earlier {product-title} versions and who operate workloads depending on modified system `SecurityContextConstraints` resources must follow the procedure in the link:https://access.redhat.com/solutions/7033949[Knowledgebase article] to make sure their workloads are able to run without modified system `SecurityContextConstraint` resources. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-19465[*OCPBUGS-19465*])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Users who want to upgrade from earlier {product-title} versions and who operate workloads depending on modified system `SecurityContextConstraints` resources must follow the procedure in the link:https://access.redhat.com/solutions/7033949[Knowledge Base article] to make sure their workloads are able to run without modified system `SecurityContextConstraint` resources. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-19465[*OCPBUGS-19465*])
```

> * Previously, the Cluster Version Operator did not prioritize likely targets when deciding which conditional update risks to evaluate first. Now for conditional updates, where the risks happen to not apply, become available more quickly after coming to the Operator's attention. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-5469[*OCPBUGS-5469*])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Previously, the Cluster Version Operator did not prioritize likely targets when determining which conditional update risks to evaluate first. Now for conditional updates to which risks do not apply, these updates are available faster after Cluster Version Operator detection. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-5469[*OCPBUGS-5469*])
```

[discrete]
[id="ocp-4-14-dev-console-bug-fixes"]
==== Developer Console

* Previously, if you tried to edit a Helm chart repository in the *Developer* console by navigating to *Helm*, clicking the *Repositories* tab, then selecting *Edit HelmChartRepository* through the {kebab} menu for your Helm chart repository, an *Error* page displayed a `404: Page Not Found` error. This was caused by a component path that was not up to date. This issue is now fixed. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-14660[*OCPBUGS-14660*])

> * Previously, difficulty existed on distinguishing between the types of samples listed in the *Samples* page. With this fix, you can easily identify the sample type from the badges displayed on the *Samples* page. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-7446[*OCPBUGS-7446*])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Previously, distinguishing between the types of samples listed in the *Samples* page was difficult. With this fix, you can easily identify the sample type from the badges displayed on the *Samples* page. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-7446[*OCPBUGS-7446*])
```

> * Previously on the Pipeline *Metrics* page, only four legends are visible for `TaskRun` duration charts. With this update, you can see all the legends present for the `TaskRun` duration charts. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-19878[*OCPBUGS-19878*])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Previously on the Pipeline *Metrics* page, only four legends were visible for `TaskRun` duration charts. With this update, you can see all the legends present for the `TaskRun` duration charts. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-19878[*OCPBUGS-19878*])
```

* Previously, image mirroring would fail when you attempted to mirror OCI indexes by using oc-mirror plugins. With this fix, you can mirror OCI indexes by using oc-mirror plugins. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-15329[*OCPBUGS-15329*])

> * Previously, when mirroring several large catalogs on a low-bandwidth network, mirroring would be interrupted due to an expired authentication token resulting in the `HTTP 401 unauthorized` error. This issue is fixed by refreshing the authentication tokens before starting the mirroring process of each catalog. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-20137[*OCPBUGS-20137*])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Previously, when mirroring several large catalogs on a low-bandwidth network, mirroring would be interrupted due to an expired authentication token, resulting in an `HTTP 401 unauthorized` error. This issue is now fixed by refreshing the authentication tokens before starting the mirroring process of each catalog. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-20137[*OCPBUGS-20137*])
```

[id="ocp-4-14-rhcos-bug-fixes"]
==== {op-system-first}

> * Previously, pods in {product-title} that access block persistent volume claims (PVC) storage with logical volume manager metadata (LVM) could get stuck when terminating. This is because the same LVM devices were active both inside the container and on the host. An example of this occurred when running a virtual machine inside a pod that used {VirtProductName} that in turn used LVM for the virtual machine. With this update, {op-system} by default only attempts to setup and access devices that are in the `/etc/lvm/devices/system.devices` file. This prevents contentious access to the LVM devices inside the virtual machine guests. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-5223[*OCPBUGS-5223*])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Previously, pods in {product-title} that access block persistent volume claims (PVC) storage with logical volume manager (LVM) metadata could get stuck when terminating. This is because the same LVM devices were active both inside the container and on the host. An example of this occurred when running a virtual machine inside a pod that used {VirtProductName} that in turn used LVM for the virtual machine. With this update, {op-system} by default only attempts to setup and access devices that are in the `/etc/lvm/devices/system.devices` file. This prevents contentious access to the LVM devices inside the virtual machine guests. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-5223[*OCPBUGS-5223*])
```
"metadata" is not part of the storage-driver acronym

[id="ocp-4-14-storage-bug-fixes"]
==== Storage

* Previously, when the cluster-wide proxy is enabled on {ibmcloudVPCRegProductName} clusters, there was a failure to provision volumes. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-18142[*OCPBUGS-18142*])

> * The `vsphereStorageDriver` field of the Storage Operator object has been deprecated and will be removed in a future release. This field was used to opt in to CSI migration on {product-title} 4.13 vSphere clusters, but it has no effect on {product-title} {product-version} and newer clusters. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-13914[*OCPBUGS-13914*])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The `vsphereStorageDriver` field of the Storage Operator object has been deprecated. This field was used to opt-in to CSI migration on {product-title} 4.13 vSphere clusters, but it has no effect on {product-title} {product-version} and newer clusters. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-13914[*OCPBUGS-13914*])
```

* Booting fails in a large compute node. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-20075[*OCPBUGS-20075*])

> * When you deploy a cluster with a Network Type of `OVNKubernetes` on {ibmpowerRegProductName}, compute nodes may reboot because of a kernel stack overflow. As a workaround, you can deploy the cluster with a Network Type of `OpenShiftSDN`. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHEL-3901[*RHEL-3901*])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* When you deploy a cluster with a Network Type of `OVNKubernetes` on {ibmpowerRegProductName}, compute nodes might reboot because of a kernel stack overflow. As a workaround, you can deploy the cluster with a Network Type of `OpenShiftSDN`. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHEL-3901[*RHEL-3901*])
```

* Currently, users cannot modify the `interface-specific` safe sysctl list by updating the `cni-sysctl-allowlist` config map in the `openshift-multus` namespace. As a workaround, you can modify, either manually or with a DaemonSet, the `/etc/cni/tuning/allowlist.conf` file on the node or nodes. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-11046[*OCPBUGS-11046*])

> * In {product-title} {product-version}, all nodes use Linux control group version 2 (cgroup v2) for internal resource management in alignment with the default {op-system-base} 9 configuration. However, if you apply a performance profile in your cluster, the low latency tuning features associated with the performance profile do not support cgroup v2.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* In {product-title} {product-version}, all nodes use Linux control group version 2 (cgroup v2) for internal resource management in alignment with the default {op-system-base} 9 configuration. However, if you apply a performance profile in your cluster, the low-latency tuning features associated with the performance profile do not support cgroup v2.
```

* There is a known issue in this release which prevents installing a cluster on Alibaba Cloud by using installer-provisioned infrastructure. Installing a cluster on Alibaba Cloud is a Technology Preview feature in this release. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-20552[*OCPBUGS-20552*])

* From {product-title} {product-version} onwards, global IP address forwarding is disabled on OVN-Kubernetes based cluster deployments to prevent undesirable effects for cluster administrators with nodes acting as routers. OVN-Kubernetes now enables and restricts forwarding on a per-managed interface basis.
+
You can control IP forwarding for all traffic on OVN-Kubernetes managed interfaces by using the `gatewayConfig.ipForwarding` specification in the `Network` resource. Specify `Restricted` to forward all traffic related to OVN-Kubernetes only. Specify `Global` to allow forwarding of all IP traffic. For new installations, the default is `Restricted`. For upgrades to {product-version}, the default is `Global`. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-3176[*OCPBUGS-3176*]) (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-16051[*OCPBUGS-16051*])

> * For clusters that run on {rh-openstack} that you upgrade to {product-version} and have root volume availability zones, you must converge control plane machines onto one server group before you can enable control plane machine sets. To make the required change, follow the instructions in the link:https://access.redhat.com/solutions/7013893[Knowledgebase article]. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-13300[*OCPBUGS-13300*])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* For clusters that have root volume availability zones and are running on {rh-openstack} that you upgrade to {product-version}, you must converge control plane machines onto one server group before you can enable control plane machine sets. To make the required change, follow the instructions in the link:https://access.redhat.com/solutions/7013893[Knowledgebase article]. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-13300[*OCPBUGS-13300*])
```

> * For clusters that run on {rh-openstack} upgradable to version {product-version} and compute zones configured with at least one zone, root volumes must now also be configured with at least one zone. If this configuration change does not occur, a control plane machine set cannot be generated for your cluster. To make the required change, follow the instructions in link:https://access.redhat.com/solutions/7024383[Knowledgebase article]. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-15997[*OCPBUGS-15997*])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* For clusters that have compute zones configured with at least one zone and are running on {rh-openstack} upgradable to version {product-version}, root volumes must now also be configured with at least one zone. If this configuration change does not occur, a control plane machine set cannot be generated for your cluster. To make the required change, follow the instructions in link:https://access.redhat.com/solutions/7024383[Knowledge Base article]. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-15997[*OCPBUGS-15997*])
```

//Update with relevant advisory information
[id="ocp-4-14-0-ga"]

> === RHSA-2023:1234 - {product-title} {product-version}.0 image release, bug fix, and security update advisory

Reviewer: I think we have the ART Errata now? Can probably update these, too.

Author: Good catch, Shauna. Updated to match the advisory numbers on https://issues.redhat.com/browse/ART-7691.

@JoeAldinger . A further update is due for this section based on the completion of https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OSDOCS-8362 ?

> Issued: 2023-10-TBD

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Issued: 2023-10-31
```
